README.md, before:

# Networking the Revolution (1688-92)

During the late seventeenth century, the evolution of newsletters and newspapers allowed information to travel more quickly along those networks. _Networking the Revolution_ seeks to add to this conversation in terms of communication during conflict and regime change. The project uses corpuses of letters including: the Leven and Melville Papers, Hamilton Manuscripts, Jacobite Letters, and eventually will also contain letters from military commanders, the plantation committee, and the privy council. _Networking_ seeks to visualize and connect the world of letters, communication, and networks from disparate collections of manuscript and print sources to understand communication patterns and the distribution of information during wartime. By using network analysis, we can uncover the world of the information trade, diplomatic correspondence patterns, and the anomalies. It also helps in prosopographical analysis of the time period, why certain people group together, and understand the dynamics of group identities. This repository allows further access to critical information about seventeenth century British history and this pivotal period which shaped much of the modern British state. Perhaps more importantly, the project democratizes the pursuit of knowledge and expands the potential for research in the field.

Letters are important for more than just their contents. They also have the power to tell us more than just who was writing to who. More importantly, they can tell us who was connected with who, how often letters went missing, the frequency of communication between parties, where networks existed over time and space, and how these evolved over the course of wartime. We seek to develop an open-access project which researchers and the public at large can access to visualize the world of letters in the seventeenth century. Through the wireframing of network analysis, this project hopes to reveal the complex world of communication in late seventeenth century Scotland. The letters exchanged in this period are more than just networks of correspondence; people were bound together through community, print, and dialogue.

## Networking Data
The data for the project is in the data folder. If you are going to use the data please cite: Gillian S. Macdonald and M. Fox, "Networking the Revolution, 1688-92, (insert dataset title here)". GitHub Respopsitory, 2025, doi: doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14171107
For referencing the project:  Gillian S. Macdonald and M. Fox, _Networking the Revolution, 1688-92_, accessible at: https://networkingtherveolution.org, https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14171107

Commit message:

Update README with authors, license, and contributions
Added authors, license, contributing guidelines, and citation instructions to the README.

README.md, after:

# Networking the Revolution (1688-92)

Repository for the collection of data related to letters during the Scottish Revolution 1688-1692. The project wil primarily be use for a study of relationships during revolution and chaos--it will also map out where went and came from. 

During the late seventeenth century, the evolution of newsletters and newspapers allowed information to travel more quickly along those networks. _Networking the Revolution_ seeks to add to this conversation in terms of communication during conflict and regime change. The project uses corpuses of letters including: the Leven and Melville Papers, Hamilton Manuscripts, Jacobite Letters, and eventually will also contain letters from military commanders, the plantation committee, and the privy council. _Networking_ seeks to visualize and connect the world of letters, communication, and networks from disparate collections of manuscript and print sources to understand communication patterns and the distribution of information during wartime. By using network analysis, we can uncover the world of the information trade, diplomatic correspondence patterns, and the anomalies. It also helps in prosopographical analysis of the time period, why certain people group together, and understand the dynamics of group identities. This repository allows further access to critical information about seventeenth century British history and this pivotal period which shaped much of the modern British state. Perhaps more importantly, the project democratizes the pursuit of knowledge and expands the potential for research in the field.

Letters are important for more than just their contents. They also have the power to tell us more than just who was writing to who. More importantly, they can tell us who was connected with who, how often letters went missing, the frequency of communication between parties, where networks existed over time and space, and how these evolved over the course of wartime. We seek to develop an open-access project which researchers and the public at large can access to visualize the world of letters in the seventeenth century. Through the wireframing of network analysis, this project hopes to reveal the complex world of communication in late seventeenth century Scotland. The letters exchanged in this period are more than just networks of correspondence; people were bound together through community, print, and dialogue.

## Authors
Gillian Macdonald, Director of the Lab for the Education and Advancement in Digital Research (LEADR)
Morgan Fox, Senior Undergraduate Student, Michigan State University

## LICENSE
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 Gillian Macdonald & Morgan Fox

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

## CONTRIBUTING
Guide for people who might want to contribute to the project:

- if you wish to contribute or gave suggestions for the project please reach out.

## Citations
The data for the project is in the data folder. If you are going to use the data please cite: Gillian S. Macdonald and M. Fox, "Networking the Revolution, 1688-92, (insert dataset title here)". GitHub Respopsitory, 2025, doi: doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14171107
For referencing the project:  Gillian S. Macdonald and M. Fox, _Networking the Revolution, 1688-92_, accessible at: https://networkingtherveolution.org, https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14171107
